# Notion Blog Starter

## Features

* 1-minute cache on pages update (using [revalidate](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#revalidate))
* RSS feed (/feed.xml)
* Site map (/sitemap.xml)
* Drafts support (toggled by Public property)
* SEO support (meta description, Open Graph, Twitter cards) with shareable social images

## Customization

### Config

To customize the configuration, edit the `config.ts` file in the root directory.

- `rootNotionPageId` – The ID of the root page in your Notion. This is the page that will be used as the main entry point for your website. This page **must** be [published](https://www.notion.com/help/guides/publish-notion-pages-to-the-web) to web. You can disable indexing in publishing settings dialog if you don't want it to be indexed by search engines (the indexing is relevant only for a Notion page, since you will more likely host your blog separately, and setup SEO yourself).

### Favicon

To customize the [favicon](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/metadata/app-icons#image-files-ico-jpg-png), replace the `favicon.ico` file in the `/app` directory with your own favicon file. The new favicon should be named `favicon.ico`.

### Empty cover

If the article doesn't have a cover, the default `/public/empty-cover.png` image will be shown. Replace with your own image if needed. The suggested aspect ratio is 16:9.

### SEO

For proper SEO, each page should have the following properties:
- "Social Image" (used for Open Graph and Twitter cards). Otherwise, the page's cover will be used or `defaultPageCover` from `site.config.ts`.
- "Description" (used for meta description tag)

### Notion DB record properties

- Public (checkbox) – determines if the page should be included in the RSS feed
- Published (date) – date of publication
- Last Updated (date) – date of record last update time (autogenerated value field)
- Created (date) – date of record creation (autogenerated value field)
- Slug (text) – custom slug for the page URL (if not set, the page ID will be used)
- Tags (multi select) – tags for the page (used for filtering on the main page) (TBD)
- Intro (text) – short description of the page (used on the main page)
- Description (text) – meta description for the page (used for SEO)
- Social Image (text) – full url to image used for social sharing (Open Graph, Twitter cards). By default, the page cover will be used

### RSS

RSS feed is available at `/feed.xml`. You can customize it in the `app/feed.xml/route.ts` file.

### ENV

Setup environment variables in a `.env.local` file in the root directory. You can use the `.env.example` file as a template.

- NEXT_PUBLIC_DOMAIN – domain name (e.g. `www.example.com` or `example.com`)
- NEXT_PUBLIC_HOST – host name, including a port number (e.g. `https://example.com` or `http://example.com:80`)
